---
layout: post
title:  "Life Tips"
date:   2020-08-20 22:00:00 -0800
categories: life-tips
---
In the past six months, I've listened to 100s of hours of podcasts on topics ranging from philosophy, spirituality, finance, investing among others and here's a compilation of the most profound lessons. These are from famous people we already know and love and I have thrown in some from friends and family. I've tried to restrict this to lessons that are not oft-repeated though some classics were too hard to skip. Hope you find some that are insightful and new to you! 

### Rajender Malla
- Smile often; count your blessings; be kind

### Dr. Veena Ganju Malla
- Take things as they come; control your senses or they control you

### Buddha
- All things that compound come to an end

### Jim Otar
- Stay out of debt unless for the first home or education

### David Goggins
- Success isn't always fun
- Do uncomfortable things as often as possible
- You're not finished when you're tired, you're finished when you're done

### Jayaprakash S
- Pain of discipline is the price of happiness
- Our envy always lasts longer than the happiness of those we envy

### Warren Buffett

- In order to finish first, you must first finish
- Stay within your circle of competence
- It's not greed that drives the world, it is envy

### Aswath Damodaran

- Never invest to get rich, invest to preserve and grow your capital

### Jack Bogle

- Buy the index and don't look at it for 50 years, don't even peek

### Saket Kumar

- Twitter is a good product but not a great business

### Arunim Samat

- Differentiate between pain due to physical damage and pain due to mental fatigue
- Nirvana is an illusion, we are already free
- We can't make radical jumps, make incremental changes

### Kritarth Anand

- Suno sabki, karo khudki
- Set intention before initiating anything.

### Osho

- There are two ways, and try to understand that these are the only ways. One way is to go out and prove that you are somebody; the other way is to go in and realize that you are nobody.

### Krishna

- Perform every karma as an offering to me, and I will take care of your needs
- You are not a human seeking a spiritual experience, you are a spirit living a human experience
- Tamas << Rajas << Satvik << Satvik++

### Chamath Palihapitiya

- Get the fucking money

### Swami Vivekananda

- A fool can't get angry, a wise person doesn't get angry

### Mohnish Pabrai

- Be a cloner, clone the very best. Especially when no one else is.

### Oscar Wilde

- A cynic is someone who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing

### Naval Ravikant

- If you're so smart, why aren't you happy?
- Impatience with actions, patience with results

### Naseem Taleb

- Don't blow up

### Steve Jobs

- You can't connect the dots looking ahead

### Peter Lynch

- More money is lost anticipating a downturn than an actual downturn

### Miscellaneous

- Things don't get easier, but you get more capable of doing them
- In every walk with nature, one always receives far more than one seeks
- It ain't the things we don't know that hurt us, but the things that we are sure of that just ain't so
- Doubt is an unpleasant state of mind but certainty is absurd
- A recession is when your neighbor loses her job. A depression is when you lose your job.
- Don't define yourself as a noun, but as a verb which characterizes the changes
- If wealth is lost, nothing is lost. If health is lost, something is lost. If character is lost, everything is lost.
- Happiness in modern life is building up of tension (creating desire) and then releasing it (fulfilling desire)
- We have two lives and the second starts when we realize we only have one
- Two sources of disappointment: not getting what you want, and getting what we want
- When you give someone your attention, you give them your love ♥️
- P = NP? is the question "is there an advantage in getting lucky?"
- Samsara is a buffet, where you have lots of what you want, and not enough of what you need
- For the wise, emotions are but lines drawn on flowing water
- Concentration builds wealth, diversification preserves it
- Science advances one funeral at a time
- The solution to your problem is to see who has it
- People cheat on each other in a hundred different ways: indifference, emotional neglect, contempt, lack of respect, years of refusal of intimacy
- Note the difference between hunger and craving
- Don't eat food based on how much you like it, eat food based on how much it likes you
- The empty can makes the most noise
- The trees with the most fruits bow down the most
- The right dose differentiates a poison from a remedy
- Self-care is not having a relationship with people committed to misunderstanding you
- You are not required to rebuild a relationship with people you have forgiven
- Stop feeling bad for outgrowing people who had the chance to grow with you
- Financial planning is less planning your finances, more financing your plans

If you made it this far, [here's](https://soundcloud.com/arithemetricity/duality) a little song I wrote about my interpretation of non-duality (Advaita). The background music is from the song April by Tesseract.

A few friends and I started a podcast recently, please check it out!
- [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/1QIVtXaXaye49afFaNLLvv)
- [Apple podcasts](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/aur-batao/id1524654622)
- [Google podcasts](https://podcasts.google.com/feed/aHR0cHM6Ly9hbmNob3IuZm0vcy8xMmNiNzQwOC9wb2RjYXN0L3Jzcw)
- [Anchor](https://anchor.fm/aur-batao)
