---
layout: post
title:  "Duality"
date:   2020-08-20 22:00:00 -0800
categories: spirituality
---
Existence is (all) about duality. Everywhere you see there is a this and that. There are dualities over these dualities. These meta-dualities may manifest themselves in the question of whether or not these dualities are equivalent.
But why restrict ourselves at dualities? Is the world complex enough to warrant more than two simultaneous forms? Exactly.
That was a Yes/No question. And the duality was created in the asking of the question.
Things in duality are entangled, which makes them inseparable and identity-free (have no independent existence). Here are some of them (will update as and when I find more)

- question and answer
- good and evil
- right and wrong
- positive and negative
- life and death
- joy and sadness
- science and religion
- left and right (brain)
- yin and yang (generic duality)
- internal and external
- A and A' (generic duality)
- Free Will and Entropy
- past and future
- unstoppable force and immovable object
- cause and effect
- creation and created
- consumption and creativity
- observer and observed
- love and hate
- simulator and simulation
- dominant and submissive
- oppressor and oppressed
- matter and information
- systems and computation
- freedom and captivity
- continuous and discrete
- continuum and quantum
- wave and particle
- major and minor
- certainty and uncertainty
- mind and body
- light and darkness
- active and passive
- grand equivalence and taxonomy
- position and momentum
- you and me
- extrovert and introvert
- base case and recursive case
- asset and liability
- gratitude and longing
- loop and loophole
- change and constance
- impermanence and permanence
- computer and computation
- pain and pleasure
- manipulator and manipulation
- nothing and everything
- ephemeral and eternal
- retrospective and prophetic
- bayesian and frequentist
- momentary and timeless
- masculine and feminine
- Ram and Sita
- Shiv and Parvati
- man and woman
- push and pull
- action and reward
- pitch and rhythm
- risk and return
- knower and knowledge
- known and unknown
